[Music]
welcome everyone to this week's ipld
sync meeting
it's november the 9th 2020
and as every week we go over the stuff
that we've worked on the past week
and then discuss
any open issues we might have
um and yeah i start with myself
so there's currently there's a lot of
stuff happening on the rust side of
things
so now there was a new release on rust
multi-base which can now be compiled
with
no standard which basically means
without the standard library
and that's mostly for like smaller
systems and so on
and it's always a nicer feature but kind
of complicated to get it right in rust
um and that's now possible for
multibase and it's already possible for
rust
multihash and wpr for pr4cid is also in
there so soon like the low level
parts will all work without the standard
library
which is pretty exciting and
then there's a new rastmodus version
upcoming which is based on the review
from the libp to pr and
regular viewers might remember that i
opened a lib p2p issue a long time ago
and hope to get feedback for this vr so
i can make
those changes to rust and multicast and
then do a release
this didn't work out so i did the
release and now i do another breaking
release with the feedback i got
which i hope to get over here but it
really doesn't matter that much um it's
not
it's not like a super hard breaking
change but it's just makes things
easier and better and actually more
similar to previous versions so if
people actually upgrade from the old
version to this that new version
it will be smoother than upgrading to
the current version
um yeah that's hopefully i'm done
this week and then
um i also refined the
there's an issue open about invariance
for hyperlink codex
um we've discussed it a bit and it's all
in the issue
and the short version is that i proposed
a new wording for this
that um basically if we have codecs like
dexymore or deck protocol buffers that
whatever uan code should also be
able to be decoded by a stock
um and a decoder of the corresponding
codec
in this case seaport or protocol buffers
um anyway it's all in the issue you
have feel free to chime in there
um so yeah that's
all i did in the in the april d world
and next on my list is rod
and when i find my button there we go so
um too many windows open
okay oh hang on um
am i being hurt okay
wrong microphone this one should be
better
um so last week was two main things
um the new javascript card library is
done um thoroughly
uh so and i just need michael to publish
it since michael holds all the keys so
michael can you please do that um and
it's got docs and
it's got the whole type skip typescript
verification stuff
and most importantly it's got some ideas
about
a new block storage interface
that should apply to other
sources of blocks so and and
this the way it's done is very
separated into function so if you want
to
if you want to get blocks at random with
it like a get operation then you would
open this thing with a or you would
extract it with a particular interface
and if you wanted to iterate through the
blocks then you would go and go for
another one and these things could
potentially be
combined with an interface that like if
your blocks were in like level db that
had
easy access to all of these functions
all these functions then
you just have one thing that combines
them all but this this splits the
functionality up so that
when you have these block stores that
have various limitations you uh will
only get interfaces that work for them
so that's a theory but since this is the
first one really using a new style block
interface
um that's it's really a lot of theory
but um
it works well for this and um it's uh
you know when you're
like working with car files you tend to
have
just one style of interaction in mind
when you're doing it
if you just want to iterate through the
whole lot or if you just want to fetch
individual blocks
that tends to be the two styles when
you're reading car files
um so um
that's that uh i did some more i got a
photo library that
extracts um js doc into and pulls it
into a
section and you read me and i did a bit
of work on that during this
to make it better at handling some of
the newer typescript style
annotations and um i tweaked the output
a bit more a little bit less noisy and
a bit easier to read i think so the
readme of js car has that
style api documentation um
[Music]
and lastly the pro request three and two
nine
on specs repo which has the file coin
forms of data forms um that we've been
talking about
pulling out um and there's there's two
big things in
well there's a bunch of big things in
there there's um the main chain
and that also includes the adls
this is the hampton the amt which are
sort of mixed up with the data
um and as eric pointed out that they all
start at at the root of a block so they
you link to an adl they don't embed them
in something else but the values get
embedded in
adls in most cases in some cases they
they link out but in most cases they're
embedded values
in line so for this first pass i've
i've just sort of written it all out
where you so you can see the guts of
each adl and there's there's a lot of
duplication of these
blocks just with different names
we need to find a way of
compacting that so that it's not as
verbose
but we don't lose that information
about the block layout i'd really like
to be able to still show
what is in all of the raw blocks if you
were to read them as raw blogs
and then step up a level to say okay if
you read these things as
adls then this is what you would see so
multiple ways of drilling down into the
details um so we've got to figure out
how to do that
the second thing it contains is there's
a second dock which has
messages now the messages get embedded
they get
they get encoded as seaboard and then
embedded in a bytes field
in uh one of the blocks which then gets
encoded as taxi board
that's just how messages work um so that
they're separate separately specified as
these separate things
um and and i see um wills answered my
question today that the the returns from
those messages
also gets encoded so we probably need to
define them as well
so each each message is for a different
function in
the vm so there's a message in and then
there's a return from it
and then there's differential between
version zero and
version two of actors um so that needs
to be looked at
and the other thing that uh yesterday i
realized as i was going to bed that i've
been mostly looking at the master branch
of
actors and and not specifically version
two
and so i probably need to go back
and check out version two because
they're preparing for
i know version seven or something um so
i need to go back and make sure that i
haven't um referenced all this stuff on
a newer format that doesn't exist in the
blocks
so that's a bit annoying
um anyway i i pretty happy with this
first pass
very verbose but that's the chain it's
big
so i yeah i just want to add a couple of
things
uh the card files that i gave you do not
have
the all the returns from the vm they did
not have the receipts would not have
currently a way to export that you will
have
for sure by our next meeting but
hopefully way before that you will have
a way to get them from
a different place but they are not in
discover files and i have no way to put
them in this car file so
expect some dangling references
basically that you cannot get to
number one number two the
actors actually master always is what
they're going to be tagging
next so it's not like waste of work
at the same time we will need to have a
schema for each individual
tag of the actors because chain
yeah what i've got now is master rather
than version two for a lot of it i
yeah yeah and it's worth noting
i think the real issue i've i've also
run into the same problem rod did
when you look at master branch of actors
there are structs that are
not really defined uh
they'll like have a type alias to v2 or
v1
when you look at the concrete v2 or v1
sometimes they're also not defined but
the comments are different and actually
define what the struct
is or where it's going to be at that
version so uh there is value at looking
at the tagged versions
um the the documentation weirdly changes
uh between these tags in a way that uh
looking at it is
uh illuminating uh yeah for sure
i've been wondering if maybe actually
doing some work on clarifying stuff
even even little things like when you're
when you're sorting through messages
and they're defined in one order at the
top and then they're shuffled down the
bottom like that's
really annoying and i keep on thinking
maybe i should go in there and
shuffle them and pull requested back but
you know that's noise that's useful for
me but
probably not useful for code churns so
anyway
and uh just one more point the thing
that you looked at master it will
actually become the next version
in by the end of this week
it will be tagged so you're you're very
very close
that's the that's the most frustrating
part of this actually is is
the versioning um because you have to
you have to do it deep essentially on
looking at the
source code side by side what's changed
and um like because as will said
i i don't have a high degree of trust in
some of the linkages
and some of the reuse um so
and i think what we're building will
hopefully be
help help to be a source of truth on
this stuff so
getting it right is probably important
on our end
well just to say something positive to
be like completely out of character for
me
uh we have been live for like four weeks
now three weeks
and we had uh four upgrades of
essentially the internal vm uh
completely flawlessly so
what they built works in terms of
architecture and stuff like that so
they got it right uh we got to you know
figure out how to
work with that because no other
blockchain that i know
can actually just swap stuff like this
on on the fly without
without anything important so yeah
yeah um it is annoying still to
you have to use chain height for this
because we have
we do we just have no way of signaling
in our schemas
that this thing goes here or here um
and trying to come up with like there's
just no way to do unions of
structs that change in shape like you
add a field
um like we could make it optional but
it's just that's not actually what's
going on
it's going to a new so i i'm that
that process is annoying and i think it
just means we have to
we're going to have to get detailed
about um
when you switch between the different
versions the chain height here then
you're
actually reading from here and that's
pretty annoying
we could not have forced him back so oh
who could have forcing him
yeah for those joining us for
joining us recently we actually spoke
about this at length like three months
ago like we should not do this this will
be a nightmare
and we have a whole document to prove
this though but and that doesn't help i
mean
we're live so like let's move on but
it's just it's just frustrating
um anyway
but yeah but there's also other other
things that that are interesting for
schemers like you know eric and i have
been talking about this there's places
where
um we just can't describe what's going
on like the
actors when you jump into an actor's
state um
you you you can't define the union
because it's it's the jump point that
defines
what you're going to read and and the
key
i still don't understand this but the
key to uh
the code it's called that says what
actor type you're going to
the code is it's a cid which is an
encoded
raw identity multi-hash
of a string that's just like fill slash
two slash actor type
uh i i don't know why that's a cid like
why why not just a string because
eventually they're going to allow user
to find actors
where that sid will point to the
compiled code of the custom
actor type okay and um
and and preparing for an ideal future
has never been a problem in engineering
um okay but hey guys sid is pretty
generic you can probably fit whatever
you need in there
okay uh so so the union is is defined by
something outside of the jump point
and so um
so in our schemas we have no there's
multiple places in which you can't link
them together
so you can't you can't draw a graph like
the nice um graphql
graphs that um will's been showing
without some manual linking and actually
saying this pit
piece connects to this you couldn't take
our schemas and then just draw that from
the raw schemas
we have to have all this additional
metadata that describes how they link
what the unions of the different link
jump points are um and i i i have been
wondering if there's ways we can
extend the schema language to describe
some of those things uh i know
it makes eric a little bit um his skin
crawl a little bit to talk about things
like
link type hint unions
or union issues where you can actually
say this link
because we've got a type hint in our
link which does help with this problem
of connecting blocks together
uh if you could extend that type hint to
say this this link could resolve to
this list of types uh that would help um
but there's the versioning is another
problem as well it would be nice to have
solutions to some of these things that
help the documentation process
but it's also we have to recognize that
you know far coin's been pushing limits
here on
stuff that you know maybe maybe we have
limits that are different to the far
coin limits you know
we have had recommendations to file coin
in the past that have been ignored and
we're sort of eating some of that now
maybe
you know we shouldn't undermine too much
of our work just to fit into the
decisions they've made
and this is just an internal limitation
so
anyway food for thought
thanks and next on my list is danielle
cool so my pull request to
revive go multi-code cut some reviews
uh so i think we mostly agree on the on
the code and what it does
on the api but then something that i
kind of glossed over is
the name of the repo itself so maybe go
multi codec is not a good
repo name so maybe it should be co multi
formats
mirroring js multi formats so i added an
action item
at the top of the dock to get some
decision on this later
uh i also did some more work on the hemp
so i added a bunch of i essentially
added a method
to input a link loader and the store
and so on so now it at least in basic
cases it does know how to load links
and create new links and so on which was
pretty basic
for a hand i left a few spec questions
on slack
so i hope to get a reply to those
soonish but it's not
urgent i also synced with eric earlier
today
essentially on you know up until now i
was mostly working by myself
on stuff that i needed to figure out and
so on but now i've gotten to a point
where i need to sync with him and help
him
land new stuff in ipld prime such as the
codec work that he's been doing which
leads to the new link interfaces which
are going to help me as well
and the next thing i need to do in the
adl is to teach it how to copy nodes
because right now whenever it modifies a
hand node
it just modifies things in place which
is fine for the
sort of unit test that i have right now
but for a real hand it needs to copy
things
uh and something that michael mentioned
earlier is that
it would be interesting if if this atl
supports the new schema but also
file coin schema at the same time
i think it should be feasible um
i need to investigate a little bit and
if that's possible
he said that something that might be
interesting to the falcon people is to
then
implement batch updates uh because it's
something they don't have in the current
hand
so all that saved copying and creating
new nodes and so on
could offset for example the loss in
micro benchmarks which could be quite
interesting
but that's sort of once i finish this
stuff so probably towards the end of
this week
and that's it for me
thanks next one as well
sure um i have spent a bunch of the last
week
doing um graphql code gen off of
the go ipld schema so from
that schema i'm now generating most of a
graphql server
that is able to go from that ipld data
objects
and then create graphql queries and
serve them
off of that i can actually
maybe share my screen and show this
briefly
[Music]
let's see if i'm able to so can you guys
see this
possibly um yeah so
uh this is a query this actually touches
on a bunch of things rod was saying so
so let me see if i can say them so i've
got
the actors map this is the um
this is a hampt um
where uh right now i just let you select
an individual
key or object off of it um and then head
is this implicit union where this is
actually a sid
that links to one of a bunch of things i
updated my schema
so that i have an implicit union here um
where it gets one of the concrete actor
states off of it
and that uh implicit union is one that
um you know when you follow the sid you
get the
concrete thing and for whatever reason
graphqls unions
are essentially implicit unions so it
works totally fine here
um the only place where it doesn't
really work is if you were then to
try and use the schema as a direct ipld
uh over the data type you would sort of
get
ipld would get confused because the data
itself doesn't have the
discriminator of which value it is the
other one that
rod ran into is that when you
ask for the state route of a block uh
before some height
you got directly an actor's hand rather
than uh
the stateroot object which includes the
version and info
and so again i had to put in a little uh
piece of you know shim for filecoin that
says if it's below that what i'm going
to do is make a synthetic one
that's just sort of in injected little
uh object that says this is a synthetic
info uh state route and and sort of
demotes the sid of the actor uh
hand down into where it should be so
that you get a consistent schema
across that uh transition so that you
can always sort of query these things
um but the the exciting part here is
um once you've got that graphql is
pretty happy where you can say look if
this is an actor i want to get the
address if it is a minor i want to do
that and then
based on your input so if i input
something that is a
uh an account
object in file coin i get its address um
whereas if i input something that is a
minor
so what's a minor
that one's a minor um it'll instead
uh tell me who its owner is so i get
different things based on the thing and
this union is basically just working
um so that's uh reasonably exciting
progress
um and this is all happening
happening without uh really much
overrides at all or any like custom code
this is just
um
sorry zoom is being confusing um just
just happening purely off of the coach
so a little bit more work to finish
there but
i'm i'm pretty happy with how little
work had to happen that's not ipld
generic versus
filecoin specific um and then help trod
on some of this crazy spec stuff
thanks and next one is peter
yeah um nothing actually to report
i built this last week aside from
consuming
working
hopefully you got everything for part
one uh
taken care of um and in the process
managed to break gokar yet again uh
on top of the issues the trad fix there
are more
uh short fields and stuff like that i'm
actually like right now while this goes
and i'm getting the test case for it
because i cannot like replicate myself
for some reason
um and yeah that's all i have nothing
exciting
thanks next one is eric
uh not a ton to report because i spent
just a bunch of time doing review and
thinking on various stuff this week um
i'm really excited about all the falcoin
schematization work we're really excited
about all the ham stuff that
got close to landing um
the majority of the interesting tech
stuff that i did this work week
is um as
we start looking at using cogen more and
more and more and more um
it's starting to get to be maybe time to
take a peek at the
output size and
and try to quantify it first of all and
see if it's a concern at all or not
but like know that confidently and then
maybe
see if it's time to like start improving
things already
and so i didn't honestly get very far on
this it turns out to be a big topic but
there is at least an issue opened up now
for the discussion on that um it tracks
a couple of things that i suspect are
going to be future work
and i started taking a peek at some of
the
current size stuff and
i think i basically so far just realized
how much more work we're going to need
there
right now to try to get a handle on that
is
is a very hands-on and somewhat manual
process i think
it will be possible to script some
tooling to help inspect
well okay so inspecting um the
generated source code textual output
size of course that's easy you just like
do ls.l
right so um breaking that down
to give us guidance as developers of
this system to see what should be
improved next
is a different question and figuring out
what the binary size
is is also another totally different
question
so figuring out what the binary size is
at the moment i'm kicking around a
little bit looking at the
mid compilation assembly output and that
gives some interesting information
but again very hands-on um trying to get
totally automated answers out of this
out of the gold
tool chain it's possible that i just
haven't found the right knobs yet
um the answers can also vary a lot
based on how clever the
compiler gets about tree shaking stuff
and so far i've actually found the
compiler is annoyingly clever
it tree shakes too well on the simple
demos that i make
and so it effectively gives me no
information about the
size that a real user is likely to hit
unless i make a full real-world use case
and then the question
also evolves in like a more precise way
than i really want it to
work to do in the future there i kind of
just discovered the outline of that
problem this week
that's about it
thanks and next one is michael
hello yep um mainly last week i spent
getting remedy for these uh calibration
sessions for our reviews but
um also got a bunch of work done on
cadb the new block store um i have
transactions working now
there's some bugs and delete but my pens
work
perfectly now um and i can see how it's
performing
this is really like the first big use um
and
place where we're really performance
testing these new trees that
makola figured out and they're really
nice then
like these are just this is like a
really nice data structure we're gonna
be able to do some really cool stuff
with this this is just the first one
but anyway this this database is
actually performing pretty quickly
um initial tree creation you can do like
around
three hundred thousand um rights a
second
and dude creating an initial tree um i
expect the
the mutation performance to come down
from there probably around like a
hundred
entries a second for bulk updates
but that's still like considerably fast
like that's faster than any other
um on this data store that i know about
right now so
um yeah that's exciting stuff um
should get that in better shape this
week uh
and then figure out where to go from
there um i'm gonna need to document it
and get it out of just my head
um probably work with with rod on how to
write a good spec and docked for that
and then um
also uh sit down at some point with
jeremy and go over what the
plan might be to get an implementation
and go that filecoin could use
um and then uh yeah mccola uh
is on this grant to do rather b tree and
he uh he got an initial implementation
up so you can check out the the
ravensbee tree that he wrote as well
um looks pretty it's in typescript uh so
if you're interested
if you're one of the people on here that
likes typescript you might want to check
that out as well
um and yeah that's that's what i got
please don't call it it's like
i know i know and it's not like it no it
will stick
it will stick and everybody will think
it's rubbing it will not even look at it
because it makes no sense
yeah yeah i i think also like it doesn't
actually use wrapping
uh like rabbits actually not a great
algorithm for this
it's a horrible algorithm for this
that's what i mean nobody will look at
it because it's like
this can't possibly work which it can't
yeah
no he has a chunker in here let me look
at his chunking logic here
um yeah i mean he just has some some
math that he's doing on
on it there um with some bit masking and
whatnot
uh yeah i mean yeah you can see his
chunking thing and that's definitely not
the rabbit algorithm for what i can tell
so
um yeah i know i that was his initial
name but even as he was coming up with
that he said that's not a good name
i think so i'm gonna take this work and
create an ipld schema for a much more
generic version of the data structure
that like has a plugable chunker um
and some other kind of plugable
attributes that we can talk about and
discuss the design of
but we should be able to get like a kind
of unified implementation
where you can just implement new
chunkers and new sorters and
and vary some of the schema for the keys
and values a little bit
um and just have like a very
generic data structure in terms of the
implementation for reading and doing
range queries and stuff like that
and even for for for the creation of
mutations
um that'll be really nice and then we
can basically leverage that to do
sparse arrays and you know bigger maps
and like all kinds of different data
structures that we can build like on top
of this basic tree
um and then obviously each of those data
structures are going to have different
performance profiles that we need to
tweak
um i need to plug in different settings
and stuff like that but it'll be it'll
be pretty cool
all right that's me
thanks um chris do you have anything to
report even if there was no progress
no no no no report really okay
thanks um so uh then we
get up to the chin items
dania wants to talk about uh go
multicode versus girl multi formats
yeah so this one should be an easy one
so i just want to export the
multi-formats table
as a list of constants which i guess i
can call
codes uh but i'm not gonna
insist on that um so i think the library
should be called
go multi-formats um i think i initially
went with the go multi-coded because it
was the existing repo but i actually
didn't think about that very hard
so is go multi-formats okay with
everybody any thoughts
well multi-formats is the name for
everything including multi-base and
i don't think it has multi-base in it
right
we've traditionally called that table
the multi-codec table even
like it has uh yeah
uh michael there was actually a
discussion that he didn't attend
where i really spoke exactly about this
uh eric what was the outcome i actually
forgot myself
um i'm scrambling to reload that
document right now because i don't
remember either but i thought
somebody had actually tested that
multi-base is specifically not a
multi-format because of some
detailed reason i thought
i'm not sure well it's it's not a
multi-codec
that is certainly true but many things
many other things are also not
multicodex we would seem to
like to agree
[Music]
if they're in the table but i don't know
poker you you
you started poking at us like a year ago
and i feel like i'm indexing on what you
said like a year ago
so yeah so so basically we we had this
discussion
we had the discussion in one of the dog
sink meeting where you were there
michael and this was kind of like
so coming back to is a multi-codec
so should we name an ipaldi codex or
multi-coding and call
all the other codecs something else like
multi-format codes
for example so this was kind of the
discussion we had but i also don't
really recall the account to be honest
um but coming back to danielle's
question hope
might be made might make more sense and
so currently's
problem currently is that the we
currently have something in javascript
which is called js
multicodec which is just the table which
kind of like you are currently building
is exactly what you do and what we
currently there's a new repository for
the all new stuff which combines
cid multihash and multibase
into one thing and this is what we
currently call js smarty formats
so i guess if we ignore what we've
discussed like three weeks ago
i would call it go multi codec
as the current name that we have but if
we want to do forward thinking
then perhaps it should be a different
name
so i think that that's a good solution
for now and that we should just call it
go multi-kodak
on this bigger topic what is a
multi-codec
without iflb though because like i feel
like we're we're saying that multicodex
is this thing that multi-hashes aren't
because we know what the data model is
and what it means and how we assign
codex to these things
but from the point of view of
multi-formats it's just a table of
integers to identify those
i feel like those are all multi-codecs
and some of them are to hash functions
and some aren't
and that's the main difference um
so i found it last week if i
can like sprint through that real quick
um yeah we basically talked about
exactly this
and a couple of the outcomes are um i
mean
so step one the reason that we talked
about it is we find this really
confusing
like almost all the people who were
present in that meeting talk about
these terms um the fact that this table
is currently called multi-codec
and contains a bunch of references to
stuff that we would not call codex
is deeply confusing to us for example
multihash
also being in this table is confusing to
most of us
um cid is being in this table is
confusing to
most of us um i could go on with that
list for
some time if i just scrolled through the
table itself
so i'm not it's also
doubly confusing when you combine it
with the cids themselves where cids
especially cid v1 specifies itself as
having a multi-codec
as one of the variants in the cid prefix
and that number must refer only to
a codec and clearly not a multi-hash
because for that number to refer to a
multi-hash would just be insane
most of our code would say no
it would say invalid cid in some format
most likely
so we had a couple of votes
to try to break it down and the thing
that
was strongly agreed was
we think that currently this table being
named multi-codec
is a confusing mistake and we should
push a rename in some direction
one suggestion was to rename it to the
multi-format table
and that had tepid support but also very
little opposition it just didn't have
strong feelings from anyone present so
that's where we ended up parking it
nobody could come up with a strong
resolution of what we want it to be but
everybody agreed that it currently being
called multi-codec is deeply confusing
and should be changed
so in my view cid calling
that field multi-codec is a mistake
that field should just be called codec
because the cid data structure is
asserting
meaning of that integer and it's
pointing that meeting
to be a codec that is presumably in the
multi-codec table
and then multi-hash obviously also has a
multi-codec in it that points to the
hashing function that's being used
um that seems to like make sense to me
like i don't know i tend to flatten all
of these things too
these are just variables in particular
data structures and that's where the
meaning gets applied
so we don't need to worry about the
meaning in each of those data structures
what we need to worry about is what is
the meaning of the table
and the meaning of the table is just to
map like well-known protocols
to images basically um
i think at this point my personal theory
is we should do a um
we should do a venn diagram of this like
visually
yeah but but that said that being what
the table is
calling it the multi-codec table is like
not the best name
like like it really isn't um
like uh
if if multi-base did not exist i would
literally call it the multi-base table
because it's like a database of multi
identifiers but
um i mean we could call it multi-id we
could call it multi-table
like i like anything really i do think
that only codec does get a little
confusing um but i'm not a but i'm not
ascribing as much meaning to multicode
as i think other people are
the the meta multi table
i like that that's all that's so method
oh man i mean calling it multi-codes is
not the worst idea here
by the way multi-code seems to make a
like a lot of sense i
would not be opposed to that
okay um i should probably put this in
the notes at this quick discussion but
like
what is now the answer for for danielle
basically so is there an answer
just call it go multi-codec for now
because it matches the
the bad naming that we have elsewhere
but
and at some point if we figure out a
better name for this and we want to be
consistent we'll just update all of them
yep i was going to say that um that
sounds good
really the only reason i mentioned core
multi-formats as a name is because i
didn't notice there was a
javascript multi-codec as well so yeah
sounds good
okay um is there anything else
i should probably check the agenda
no nothing on the agenda anything else
anyone wants to talk about
no cool and then
i close the meeting and so thanks
everyone and see you all next week again
goodbye